[THEME MUSIC]
MAN 1: And I think
many people today don't
know what to believe anymore.
MAN 2: People are
basically going
to keep on looking to help
uncover what really happened.
WOMAN: It felt like
something was watching me.
MAN 3: We weren't given
all the information.
We weren't told
the entire story.
[CLOCK TICKING]
GEORGE NOORY: Who
was Edgar Cayce?
Edgar Cayce has been called the
"father of holistic medicine,"
the "sleeping prophet,"
and the most documented
psychic of the 20th century.
Cayce was born on a farm in
Hopkinsville, Kentucky in 1877.
His psychic abilities
began to appear
in childhood, when
he was able to talk
to his deceased grandfather.
Later in life, Cayce found
that he had the ability
to lay down and place his
mind in contact with all time
and space, the
universal consciousness,
and respond to questions
which he did nearly every day
for an astonishing 44 years.
The result was an incomparable
collection of data that
came to be called readings.
And their insights offer
practical help and advice
to individuals even today.
Well, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
You know, when I
was a young man,
I was fascinated with
the life of Edgar
Cayce, read books on Edgar
Cayce, studied Edgar Cayce.
And who would believe that
later on in my adult life,
I would come across
an individual who
he too was interested in
the life of Edgar Cayce?
So much so, that lecturer and
interdimensional researcher,
Wynn Free, wrote a book
called "The Reincarnation
of Edgar Cayce."
And when you hear who
that person might be,
you'll be fascinated.
Wynn, welcome to
"Beyond Belief."
Thank you, George.
Thank you for having me.
This is a fantastic
book, by the way.
You did your homework.
I did.
Let's talk a little
bit about Edgar Cayce
to some people who are
listening and watching us
right now who say,
who was this guy?
Who was Cayce?
Edgar Cayce,
historically, is the most
credible and documented
psychic prophet
in the history of the world.
He died in 1945.
And for 40 years of his life,
he would go into a trance.
He didn't remember
anything he said.
And he was able to diagnose
people's health problems,
even if they weren't
in the room with him.
He could-- somebody could
say, Joe Schmo in New York.
And he would go and he would
just say, this is his problems.
And the people would
go to the doctor,
and the diagnosis would
always be exactly right.
GEORGE NOORY: Wow.
-You know.
I mean, even to the point
of red blood cell count,
and this and that.
Without medical testing?
WYNN FREE: Without medical
testing, he did it.
He was in a trance.
He didn't remember what he said.
GEORGE NOORY: Somebody
was recording all that?
And he had somebody
transcribing it,
and he did 15,000
of these readings.
And not only did he
do health readings,
but he was recommending to
people alternative cures that
had never been used before.
And people were using them,
and it was working for them.
And in fact, even today
there are doctors that swear
by Edgar Cayce's remedies.
And most health food stores
have a special selection
of Edgar Cayce's remedies.
GEORGE NOORY: [CHUCKLES]
And, you know, for 20 years,
he only did health readings.
Now, remember, it was a mystery.
How was this guy doing it?
Who was talking?
-No trickery here.
-No trickery.
Who was talking through him?
And then after 20 years,
he suddenly gave a reading,
and in that reading, he
included reincarnation.
And he said, the reason
the person has this problem
is because they did
something in a past life,
and they were working
out the karma of it.
GEORGE NOORY: Right.
It carried over.
Yeah.
So for the next 20 years, people
were all asking, who was I?
And he would refer
to those things.
Now, it's very interesting.
For the first 20 years, he
never referred to reincarnation.
The reason is, the source that
was speaking through Edgar
Cayce, who we're going
to go into-- because all
through Edgar Cayce's time,
the source was a mystery.
But through the
current who I believe
was the incarnation
of Cayce, the source
has explained who they are.
And it's absolutely
riveting of how
this fits into the big
picture of the universe.
Cayce believed it was the
Christ speaking through him.
GEORGE NOORY: Ah.
But that's all he said.
He didn't say it was Jesus,
it was-- so what's the Christ?
I was--
It's universal oneness?
Actually, I don't
want to jump the gun.
The way that the Christ
works is so mind-blowing,
and it makes so much
sense when you hear it.
But the source
speaking through Cayce
didn't want to do reincarnation
for the first 20 years
because Cayce was a
Fundamentalist Christian.
GEORGE NOORY: So he backed off.
The source backed off.
The source.
Well, we're going to find out
that the source was actually
a group soul-- it was
not an individual being--
and that it was a group soul
that graduated from this realm.
Wynn, why Edgar Cayce?
Why was he the one
that was selected?
Well, usually when
this happens to people,
they had a track record
in past lifetimes
where they had this connection.
And they can go
through many lifetimes
where they don't
have the connection,
or it's in the background.
It's in the world
of possibilities.
For somebody to channel
and bring this forth,
usually they had to have
it in their past lives.
And Cayce did.
And in fact, if you
read the Cayce material,
Cayce had a past life in Egypt,
in approximately 10,000 BC.
And he was a high priest, and he
was doing things like building
the pyramids by levitation.
This was in the
"Cayce Readings."
The Hall of Records,
he talked about.
He did it all.
WYNN FREE: Right, right.
But who was the source?
In the "Cayce Readings," they
never talked about the source,
even in his 10,000 BC life.
But his name was Ra Ta, and he
was doing miracles of healing.
He built the pyramids
by levitation.
GEORGE NOORY: Ra Ta did.
Ra Ta.
And there was-- OK,
the source identified
themselves through the current
guy who I believe is Cayce.
And they explained that
they were a group soul made
up of graduates of this realm.
If you're into
Buddhism, you know
that people go through
many, many, many lifetimes.
And the Buddhists
talk about getting
off the wheel of reincarnation.
Well, what happens
to you when you get
off the wheel of reincarnation?
Apparently, there's
a lot of free will.
So no one-- some people can
incarnate in another planet.
Some people can come back
and be an avatar on Earth.
Who knows?
But one of the
places is there's
a group soul made up of hundreds
of millions of graduates.
And what they do is they
try to assist the planets.
They do assist planets at
lower levels of evolution.
And how do they assist?
What do they do?
Well, one thing is they can talk
through people in the process
called channeling.
So my evidence shows
that Edgar Cayce
was channeling this group soul.
And as I was
studying all of this,
they called themselves
the Ra Group.
And as I was
studying this, there
was another woman
that supposedly
channeled this same group
soul from the period of 1981
to 1983.
And she had put five books out.
And they were actually
accepted by a small company
in Pennsylvania that Bob
Friedman, who went on to--
GEORGE NOORY: They like them.
--Bob Friedman accepted
work for that company.
And he's the guy that published
"Conversations with God."
It's just an amazing lineage.
The woman's name
is Carla Rueckert.
And the five books are
called "Ra, Law of One,"
and I highly recommend it.
She even puts them up
on her website for free.
She's so committed
to this whole thing.
Well, when you wrote "The
Reincarnation of Edgar
Cayce,"-- and we're
leading up to identifying
the individual whom you think
is the reincarnated Edgar Cayce.
And we're going to
show you a picture,
eventually, of Edgar
Cayce and this person
we're talking about.
And the resemblance is uncanny.
But the individual in
question, was it you who said,
you're the reincarnated
Edgar Cayce?
Or was it that
individual who told you?
He had a section
on his website--
this was in approximately
the year 2000.
He had a section on
his website called
the Edgar Cayce Connection.
And he had all these
channelings on his website.
And he also had all
this scientific stuff
trying to prove that we were
going into a dimensional shift.
I read the Edgar
Cayce Connection.
GEORGE NOORY: On his website.
On his website.
He never said he
was Edgar Cayce.
He said he had a
connection, but he told
the story of this connection.
And I said, if this guy
is telling the truth,
he has to be the
reincarnation of Edgar Cayce.
And he was telling the truth.
WYNN FREE: To the best
of my investigation--
I think so too.
--he was.
I've known that person
for a number of years.
Right.
And even though some of
his thoughts and theories
are way out there, I
think he speaks the truth
and truly believes what he is
investigating and researching.
So the name of this
person-- you're thinking,
who in the heck is
it-- is none other
than Gaiam TV's very own David.
Wilcock
WYNN FREE: Right.
GEORGE NOORY: That is the
person that you believe is
the reincarnated Edgar Cayce.
There's a very uncanny look.
They've got the same
nose, the same profile.
It's weird, I'll give you that.
Well, there's a lot more than
the pictures of resemblance
that tie the two together.
That would not be
enough to convince me.
GEORGE NOORY:
Explain the tie-up.
But while you're
looking at the pictures,
you can also look at David's
father and Cayce's father.
Because, as I've learned it,
we travel in soul groups,
and we meet the same
people over and over again.
But we don't know we know them,
except they're familiar to us.
Sometimes they're
familiar in a bad way,
because we did something
bad in a previous lifetime.
GEORGE NOORY: Right.
But the reason that's so
is because when you die,
your soul carries your DNA.
And so when the soul
comes into a new body,
it programs the new body with
the DNA of the past life.
And that makes sense.
So that's why that occurs.
Now, the story of what
happened to Wilcock
was he was living in
New Paltz, New York.
He graduated college.
He was studying
metaphysical things.
He was studying ETs.
And a friend of his
was talking to him
about recording his dreams.
And David started
recording his dreams.
And in the morning,
when he woke up,
he had messages,
sentence fragments,
as if somebody was
talking to him.
And he thought he
was making it up.
But it was fascinating,
so every night, he
would get up and put a pad and
write more of these sentence
fragments down.
And there was a lot of wisdom.
There were like cryptic phrases.
And after a week, one
of these fragments
made a prediction of something
that would happen to him.
And they said the date it
would happen and the time,
and it happened.
And now he was saying,
OK, this is not just me.
He thought it was ETs
talking to him, OK?
And for the next year,
he was writing down--
he was getting better at this.
Instead of writing
little fragments,
he was getting paragraphs,
and page after page
after page of this
incredible wisdom, OK?
Incredible beyond his-- you
know, he was a young man.
I was talking to
him all the time.
And there's no way it
could have come from him.
And then this-- he called
it his dream voice.
And after a year,
his dream voice
asked him to move to
Virginia Beach, which he did,
which happened to be where
the Cayce Institute is.
That's right, ARE.
And he had learned about
his resemblance to Cayce.
And it kind of gave
him a stomach ache, OK?
It's like, I mean--
It was a revelation, wasn't it?
Well, you know what?
If you were somebody that
famous and that had influenced
that many people, it's scary.
I think I was George
Noory in another lifetime.
You were.
In any case, David
saw the pictures,
and then he found the
pictures of his father
connecting to Cayce's father.
And now this voice
that was coming to him,
he was starting to be able to
contact it in his waking state.
Well, the interesting
thing about Edgar Cayce
is that Edgar Cayce always
channeled in a trance.
He never remembered
what he said.
And as I was studying
Edgar Cayce--
And he talked, right?
And he talked in
this trans state.
Yeah, he talked.
I intensely studied Edgar
Cayce because I decided-- what
happened was I was
writing articles
for a metaphysical magazine.
And I told the editor,
I said, listen,
I want to interview this guy.
And she looked at
his website, and she
called me back and said, Wynn,
he looks like a wacko to me.
GEORGE NOORY: [CHUCKLES]
And I said, well,
he may be a wacko,
but I think he's Edgar Cayce.
So she said I
could interview him
and that she wouldn't promise
to run it until she read it, OK?
So I interviewed David, and
I sent her the interview.
She called me back
gasping, saying,
oh my god, you're right.
He has to be Edgar Cayce,
and I think you're supposed
to write the book about it.
And if she didn't say
that, I don't think
I would've written the book.
-Well, you did a great job.
Yeah.
Does Wilcock-- and we've
talked to him about this,
but I want to hear it from
you-- does he think he's
the reincarnated Edgar Cayce?
He knows he's Cayce.
You know, when he was
going through this period
when I was knowing
him, he was getting
so many people hostile towards
him because he would say that.
And so he doesn't like--
GEORGE NOORY: They didn't
like to hear that, did they?
Well, you know what?
It's very hard to
say you were somebody
famous without sounding
self-aggrandizing.
Or maybe you're trying to get
people to pay attention to you.
And you have to be
very diplomatic.
And David was young and he was--
Very impetuous.
He got a lot of
hostility for it, OK?
He still does.
You go look on the
internet, and particularly
because what he's done
from-- he doesn't emphasize
channeling at all now.
And what he's done from
that time till now,
he's made predictions.
They didn't come out, you know.
GEORGE NOORY: Cayce
made predictions
that haven't come out yet.
WYNN FREE: Right, correct.
As accurate as he
was with health,
he hasn't been as accurate
about earth changes,
and things like that.
Well, there's a whole section
in the book I wrote, where
we talked about earth changes.
Through Wilcock,
there was something
very fascinating that
came through in one
of his early channelings.
Cayce's most famous channeling,
the most probably duplicated,
is his devastation prophecy,
where Europe's going
down in the blink of an eye.
And Los Angeles and
Tokyo-- I don't remember.
GEORGE NOORY:
Underwater, everything.
Everything was
going to disappear.
He may have been
ahead of his time.
Well, the interesting
thing about that prophecy
is that it had a
byline, you know.
It wasn't Cayce's normal source.
It was another entity.
And through Wilcock's source,
was saying things like that
was from a negative source.
It wasn't them.
And then they tried
to correct it.
Because elsewhere, in the
"Cayce Readings," they said,
these changes will
happen gradually.
So we have this potential
for a negative source.
And they said both
Wilcock and Cayce,
at times, had negative sources.
This is why you
can never ever give
up your power to channeling.
Because it can be a
positive source one day
and a negative
source another day.
And that prophecy was
designed to create fear
and to also discredit Cayce.
That's what I believe.
And I did a search.
I had the CD-ROM of
the "Cayce Readings."
And that source had come through
at different times and said,
I am in the heavens like
Jesus is to your realm, OK?
What a tempting phrase
to give your power up.
Everything-- when you have
a channeled source that uses
exalted names, like
even ascended masters.
I'm not saying that's
true in every case,
but ascended masters,
Jesus, God, you know.
It's like anything that tempts
you to give up your power,
you have to be very wary of.
That doesn't mean
it's not positive.
But in this case, this
source, when I searched them--
you know, Cayce
had a study group
that looked at his readings
and came to the conclusion
that they did not want to
invite this source back anymore.
And they didn't trust it.
And they wanted to have
the regular source which
they thought was the Christ.
And one of the most fascinating
things about this-- and this
is something that
a person's going
to have to do their
own study, you know,
investigation, research.
I can't possibly make this
point in this short a time.
But here we have a
group soul that's
made up of graduates of this
realm that wants to help us.
And we have a lot of
inequity in this realm.
We have slavery.
We have the Annunaki.
Well, I came to the conclusion
that Jesus was very much
connected with this group soul.
And there was one thing in
the book, one statement,
that slipped through.
Because I wanted to put this
in the book and David didn't.
But I think it's
really important
that everyone should--
And you got it in.
I got it in.
I got this one statement in.
But, you know, basically,
this group soul
made a comment about Jesus.
And this statement has been--
you know where it says,
Jesus says.
I am the way, I'm
the light, right?
"This statement
has been hopelessly
distorted to all sorts of
parsimonious situations,
including but not limited
to those who would use it
as a means to bolster
their own faith
and to say that all those
who do not believe in Jesus
are forever condemned to an
eternal hellfire of some sort,
made gruesome in
its potentialities
for prolonged intense suffering.
And yet, the masses
of your people
insist on some level within
that this inner Christ
is what is being accomplished."
Now get this.
This is the sentence.
"Because of the damage we
sustained in our religion,
namely Christianity, we often
come to you without ever
speaking in these exact terms."
Now did that come through--
WYNN FREE: That
came through David.
-Through David.
-Yeah.
Yeah.
-Interesting.
Now, so he's beginning to
believe that he's Edgar Cayce.
What about other people
who begin to know him?
Do they believe this?
I would say, I don't
think someone could know
it unless they read the book--
GEORGE NOORY: First.
--first.
Or studied the case.
Or understood Cayce.
I mean, you know, there were
certain things about Cayce.
And I had studied
Cayce very intensely
while I was writing this book.
Like, for example, somebody
that was living in the Cayce
household, the name
was Harmon Bro, who
wrote a number of
books about Cayce,
was saying that Cayce was
prone to fits of anger.
Part of Cayce did not like
just having people coming over
and saying, go into a trance.
His own ego wanted
to express himself.
And I think in this
lifetime, David needed
to express himself and
not just go into a trance
and do readings.
And he's done a
bang-up job doing that.
You know, when the
book came out, David
and I essentially
went separate ways
because he didn't want to talk
about being Cayce anymore.
He was over that.
Well, he didn't
want-- I don't think
he wanted the resposib-- well,
put yourself in David's shoes,
OK?
You're channeling.
You're bringing forth all
this incredible wisdom,
and there's no doubt
that it's wise.
And your source tells
you that both you
and Cayce had negative
sources at different times.
Now, here you are going
out into the world,
going to say your Edgar Cayce.
And people are going
to give up their power
to you, because they're going
to think you know everything.
And David doesn't
know everything.
And Cayce didn't
And originally, David was
scared of having that kind
of-- in my opinion, you know,
I'm speaking about David-- was
scared about having people
give up their power to him
like that.
And he wanted to do
things scientifically
and put things together.
See, there was an
incredible thing
that was coming
through his readings,
and that we are in the middle
of a dimensional shift.
It's the end of a
75,000 year cycle,
and that there is going to
be a separation of souls.
People were going to
either graduate this realm
or repeat it.
And half of the book
is Wilcock's source
explaining how that works and
how to win, how to graduate,
you know.
And I thought that was the
most important book I--
most important thing I
would ever do in my life,
because I had the gut
feeling it was real.
When the trances eventually
killed Edgar Cayce--
They actually told Cayce
that he shouldn't channel--
he shouldn't do readings for
more than two people a day,
or something,
-He would not stop.
Wynn, how do people get a
hold of you or track you?
OK, returnofedgar.com.
And on that website,
on that page,
not only can you get the
book, but you can get--
I did an interview with
Wilcock's source in 2003,
I believe it was.
And we talked about the shift.
And it's a 45 minute
interview with him channeling,
and it's there.
All right, very good.
Wynn, thank you so much for
being on "Beyond Belief."
Great work. "The
Reincarnation of Edgar Cayce,"
truly very strange.
You know Dave Wilcock
if you watch "Beyond
Belief" and Gaiam Television.
He is the reincarnated
Edgar Cayce.
I'm George Noory and thanks
for watching "Beyond Belief."
[THEME MUSIC]
[CLOCK TICKING]